What is this?
-------------

This file is an excerpt of David D. Lewis' README.txt file (v1.2)
included in the Reuters-21578 text categorization test collection. It
contains an informal description of the format of the files in this
sub-directories 'training-data' and 'test-data' (except
test-data/results.sgm). A formal definition of the format has can be
found in the SGML DTD in 'lewis.dtd'. 

Copyright & Notification 
------------------------

   The copyright for the text of newswire articles and Reuters
annotations in the Reuters-21578 collection resides with Reuters Ltd.
Reuters Ltd. and Carnegie Group, Inc. have agreed to allow the free
distribution of this data *for research purposes only*.  
   If you publish results based on this data set, please acknowledge
its use, refer to the data set by the name "Reuters-21578,
Distribution 1.0", and inform your readers of the current location of
the data set.

   The Reuters-21578, Distribution 1.0 test collection is available
from David D. Lewis' professional home page, currently:

             http://www.research.att.com/~lewis


Formatting 
----------

     The files are in SGML format.  Rather than going into the details
of the SGML language, we describe here in an informal way how the SGML
tags are used to divide each file, and each document, into sections.
Readers interested in more detail on SGML are encouraged to pursue
one of the many books and web pages on the subject.

     Each of the 22 files begins with a document type declaration line:
               <!DOCTYPE lewis SYSTEM "lewis.dtd">

The DTD file lewis.dtd is included in the distribution.  Following the
document type declaration line are individual Reuters articles marked
up with SGML tags, as described below.


   VI.A. The REUTERS tag:

    Each article starts with an "open tag" of the form

    <REUTERS TOPICS=?? LEWISSPLIT=?? CGISPLIT=?? OLDID=?? NEWID=??>

where the ?? are filled in an appropriate fashion.  Each article ends
with a "close tag" of the form:

     </REUTERS>

In all cases the <REUTERS> and </REUTERS> tags are the only items
on their line.  

     Each REUTERS tag contains explicit specifications of the values
of five attributes, TOPICS, LEWISSPLIT, CGISPLIT, OLDID, and NEWID.
These attributes are meant to identify documents and groups of 
documents, and have the following meanings: 

     1. TOPICS : The possible values are YES, NO, and BYPASS:
        a. YES indicates that *in the original data* there was at
least one entry in the TOPICS fields.
        b. NO indicates that *in the original data* the story had no
entries in the TOPICS field.
        c. BYPASS indicates that *in the original data* the story was
marked with the string "bypass" (or a typographical variant on that
string).
     This poorly-named attribute unfortunately is the subject of much
confusion. It is meant to indicate whether or not the document had
TOPICS categories *in the raw Reuters-22173 dataset*.  The sole use of
this attribute is to defining training set splits similar to those
used in previous research. (See the section on training set splits.)
The TOPICS attribute does **NOT** indicate anything about whether or
not the Reuters-21578 document has any TOPICS categories.  (Version
1.0 of this document was errorful on this point.)  That can be
determined by actually looking at the TOPICS field. A story with
TOPICS="YES" can have no TOPICS categories, and a story with
TOPICS="NO" can have TOPICS categories.
     Now, a reasonable (though not certain) assumption is that for all
TOPICS="YES" stories the indexer at least thought about whether the
story belonged to a valid TOPICS category.  Thus, the TOPICS="YES"
stories with no topics can reasonably be considered negative examples
for all 135 valid TOPICS categories.
     TOPICS="NO" stories are more problematic in their interpretation.
Some of them presumedly result because the indexer made an explicit
decision that they did not belong to any of the 135 valid TOPICS
categories.  However, there are many cases where it is clear that a
story should belong to one or more TOPICS categories, but for some
reason the category was not assigned.  There appear to be certain time
intervals where large numbers of such stories are concentrated,
suggesting that some parts of the data set were simply not indexed, or
not indexed for some categories or category sets.  Also, in a few
cases, the indexer clearly meant to assign TOPICS categories, but put
them in the wrong field.  These cases have been corrected in the
Reuters-21578 data, yielding stories that have TOPICS categories, but
where TOPICS="NO", because the the category was not assigned in the
raw version of the data.
     "BYPASS" stories clearly were not indexed, and so are useful only
for general distributional information on the language used in the
documents.

     2. LEWISSPLIT : The possible values are TRAINING, TEST, and
NOT-USED.  TRAINING indicates it was used in the training set in the
experiments reported in LEWIS91d (Chapters 9 and 10), LEWIS92b,
LEWIS92e, and LEWIS94b.  TEST indicates it was used in the test set
for those experiments, and NOT-USED means it was not used in those
experiments.

     3. CGISPLIT : The possible values are TRAINING-SET and
PUBLISHED-TESTSET indicating whether the document was in the training
set or the test set for the experiments reported in HAYES89 and
HAYES90b.

     4. OLDID : The identification number (ID) the story had in the
Reuters-22173 collection.

     5. NEWID : The identification number (ID) the story has in the
Reuters-21578, Distribution 1.0 collection.  These IDs are assigned to
the stories in chronological order.

In addition, some REUTERS tags have a sixth attribute, CSECS, which
can be ignored.  

The use of these attributes is critical to allowing comparability
between different studies with the collection, and is discussed
further in Section VIII.


  VI.B. Document-Internal Tags 

     Just as the <REUTERS> and </REUTERS> tags serve to delimit
documents within a file, other tags are used to delimit elements
within a document.  We discuss these in the order in which they
typically appear, though the exact order should not be relied upon in
processing. In some cases, additional tags occur within an element
delimited by these top level document-internal tags.  These are
discussed in this section as well.

     We specify below whether each open/close tag pair is used exactly
once (ONCE) per a story, or a variable (VARIABLE) number of times
(possibly zero).  In many cases the start tag of a pair appears only
at the beginning of a line, with the corresponding end tag always
appearing at the end of the same line.  When this is the case, we
indicate it with the notation "SAMELINE" below, as an aid to those
processing the files without SGML tools.  

     1. <DATE>, </DATE> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: Encloses the date and time
of the document, possibly followed by some non-date noise material.

     2. <MKNOTE>, </MKNOTE> [VARIABLE] : Notes on certain hand
corrections that were done to the original Reuters corpus by Steve
Finch.

     3. <TOPICS>, </TOPICS> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: Encloses the list of
TOPICS categories, if any, for the document. If TOPICS categories are
present, each will be delimited by the tags <D> and </D>.
     
     4. <PLACES>, </PLACES> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: Same as <TOPICS>
but for PLACES categories.

     5. <PEOPLE>, </PEOPLE> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: Same as <TOPICS>
but for PEOPLE categories.

     6. <ORGS>, </ORGS> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: Same as <TOPICS> but
for ORGS categories.

     7. <EXCHANGES>, </EXCHANGES> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: Same as
<TOPICS> but for EXCHANGES categories.

     8. <COMPANIES>, </COMPANIES> [ONCE, SAMELINE]: These tags always
appear adjacent to each other, since there are no COMPANIES categories
assigned in the collection.
    
     9. <UNKNOWN>, </UNKNOWN> [VARIABLE]: These tags bracket control
characters and other noisy and/or somewhat mysterious material in the
Reuters stories.

     10. <TEXT>, </TEXT> [ONCE]: We have attempted to delimit all the
textual material of each story between a pair of these tags.  Some
control characters and other "junk" material may also be included.
The whitespace structure of the text has been preserved. The <TEXT>
tag has the following attribute:

        a. TYPE: This has one of three values: NORM, BRIEF, and
UNPROC.  NORM is the default value and indicates that the text of the
story had a normal structure. In this case the TEXT tag appears simply
as <TEXT>.  The tag appears as <TEXT TYPE="BRIEF"> when the story is a
short one or two line note.  The tags appears as <TEXT TYPE="UNPROC">
when the format of the story is unusual in some fashion that limited
our ability to further structure it.

The following tags optionally delimit elements inside the TEXT
element. Not all stories will have these tags:

        a. <AUTHOR>, </AUTHOR> : Author of the story. 
        b. <DATELINE>, </DATELINE> : Location the story
originated from, and day of the year. 
        c. <TITLE>, </TITLE> : Title of the story. We have attempted
to capture the text of stories with TYPE="BRIEF" within a <TITLE>
element.
        d. <BODY>, </BODY> : The main text of the story.



